# Event_Management_System_Celebration_Hut

## ABSTRACT : 

The EVENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (CELEBRATION HUT) defines the development of a feature rich application based system for maintaining the events as per the customer requirements in the systems. This application based system, entitled Event Management System, is developed to take the customer needs to organize events with proper requirements given to the employees and which requirements are approved by employees and administrative persons of this system. This application based system is facilitating to the administrator to authorize new employee’s applications, to authorize new registered customers, and to confirm the orders placed by the registered customers. This application is giving the permission to the general non-registered customers to view the application at its limited privileges.

## METAMORPHOSIS :

### Problem Statements :-

1. Authentication -

The first problem of the project is the most preliminary and basic problem. As it implies “Authentication” means to identify a user/customer as authentic or not. When a user/customer registers into the system, he/she has to provide information about them. This information helps to identifying a particular user/customer for further login or authentication procedures. For example, when a user/customer creates an account or signed up into the system, he has to provide his contact number, name, email etc. these information have to be genuine otherwise the user cannot be contacted if any problem arise.

2. User creation -

The problem is to be faced by the user/customer if he/she wants to place order for a particular event. If the user/customer just intends to place an order for a particular event he/she must create it by signing up into this system. If a user/customer has no account in this system then he/she cannot be able to place an order at all. The user/customer ID will be auto generated by the system and he/she should give his/her name, address, contact number, email, date of birth and those desired data and at last he/she should give a password. The user/customer should confirm the password at the time of signing up into the system. If the passwords are not matching then user/customer should re-signup.

3. Placing an Order -

In this system another problem is identified as placing an order for a particular event. If a user/customer wants to place an order then he/she should be sign up of log in first. Then he/she can place an order to a particular event as per requirements. Administrator and employees can see those orders by logging in with their accounts and they can be able to confirm/reject the order which is place if the order is available to the organization or not.

4. Employee creation -

The problem is to be faced that if there is a few numbers of administrator to maintain the system then it is difficult to handle a large number of order confirmation and users/customer sign up verification. So, this system includes to make employees to handle this problems. Here if a user/customer or a person wants to work with this system then they can be able to apply for employment by registering his/her as employee.

### Objective :-

Event Management System is a very important tool for an event organizing company. It gives a view of previous events to give an overview to the general users. It gives the opportunity to those users to become a customer of this system. In this system a user/customer can apply to be an employee of the system. It gives the updates of upcoming events. It gives the opportunity to the customer to give order as a formatted way which are confirmed by administrators or employees.

## DEVELOPMENT PLATFORMS :

### Software Platforms :-
- Eclipse IDE - KEPLAR
- Java Development Kit (JDK) 7.0.0
- Java Runtime Environment (JRE) 7.0.0
- Glassfish 4.0.0
- XAMPP Server 3.2.0
- Google Chrome 36.0

## J2EE Project (Project for J2EE Professional Training)
- Project Lead : Debayan Mukherjee
- Coding : Debayan Mukherjee
- Designing : Contributed by a team of 5 members.
- Location : CMC Limited (A TCS Subsidiary Organization), Kolkata, India
--------------------
© 2015 Event Management System. Celebration Hut. All Rights Reserved.
